tutorials for exposing workloads with gateway API (#931)
kyma-project/istio: docs/user/tutorials/01-20-expose-httbin-gateway-api.md

# Use Gateway API to Expose HTTPBin

This tutorial shows how to expose an HTTPBin Service using Gateway API.

> [!WARNING]

> > Exposing a workload to the outside world is a potential security vulnerability, so tread carefully. This example is not meant to be used in production environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Exposing a workload to the outside world is a potential security vulnerability, so tread carefully. This example is not meant to be used in the production environment. 
```

    { kubectl kustomize "github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/config/crd?ref=v1.1.0" | kubectl apply -f -; }
    ```

### Create a Workload

1. Export the name of the namespace in which you want to deploy the HTTPBin Service:

    ```
    export NAMESPACE={NAMESPACE_NAME}
    ```

2. Create a namespace with Istio injection enabled and deploy the HTTPBin Service:

    ```
    kubectl create ns $NAMESPACE
    kubectl label namespace $NAMESPACE istio-injection=enabled --overwrite
    kubectl create -n $NAMESPACE -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml
    ```

### Expose an HTTPBin Service

1. Create a Kubernetes Gateway to deploy Istio Ingress Gateway.

    ```
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-gateway
      namespace: ${NAMESPACE}
    spec:
      gatewayClassName: istio
      listeners:
      - name: http
        hostname: "httpbin.kyma.example.com"
        port: 80
        protocol: HTTP
        allowedRoutes:
          namespaces:
            from: Same
    EOF
    ```

> > [!NOTE]
> > This will deploy Istio Ingress service in your namespace with corresponding Kubernetes Service of type `LoadBalanced` and assigned external IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This command deploys the Istio Ingress service in your namespace with the corresponding Kubernetes Service of type `LoadBalanced` and an assigned external IP address.
```
